Add assets page (#2779)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/assets.mdx

---
title: Assets (Experimental)
description: Learn how to enable experimental asset support in Astro.
i18nReady: false
---

**Built-in Asset Support** is enabled in Astro behind an experimental flag. This built-in feature is intended to replace the optional `@astrojs/image` integration. The new `images` experience features

- Brand new, more intuitive `Image` component
- Automatic image optimization in Markdown and MDX files
- Integration with [Content Collections](./content-collections/)
- Improved error messages, types, and documentation

> Assets are an _experimental_ Astro feature. Be mindful that the API is subject to change before it is marked as stable.

## **Enabling Assets in Your Project**

To enable built-in asset support, you must add the following lines to your `astro.config.mjs` configuration file.

```diff
 // astro.config.mjs
 import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';

 export default defineConfig({
+ experimental: {

> +   images: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+   assets: true
```

---
title: Assets (Experimental)
description: Learn how to enable experimental asset support in Astro.
i18nReady: false
---

**Built-in Asset Support** is enabled in Astro behind an experimental flag. This built-in feature is intended to replace the optional `@astrojs/image` integration. The new assets experience features:

> - Brand new, more intuitive `Image` component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A new built-in `Image` component
```
I prefer not to tell the reader that something is intuitive!

Author: Yep, great call!

  src: string;
  width: number;
  height: number;
  format: string;
}
```

## New `src/assets` directory

We recommend putting images in the `src/assets` directory. This is entirely optional, but will become the recommended location for other asset types in the future.

Your images stored in `src/assets/` can be used by components (`.astro`, `.mdx` and other UI frameworks) and in Markdown files.

Import them from a **relative file path** or [import alias](/en/guides/aliases/) in any component file and then use the import as the `Image` component's `src` attribute.

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';

// Access images in `src/images/`
import logo from '../assets/images/logo.png';
---
<Image src={logo} alt="Astro" />
```

## New Markdown support

Relative images can now be referenced in Markdown and MDX files. These will automatically be optimized and hashed by Astro's build process.

Remote images are also valid, but are not automatically optimized by Astro's build process.

```md
<!-- src/pages/post-1.md -->
# My Markdown Page

<!-- Local image stored at src/assets/stars.png -->
![A starry night sky.](../../assets/stars.png)

> <img src="/_assets/stars.hash.png" alt="A starry night sky.">

Reviewer 2: I assume this second tag is what the first line gets transformed to - let's make this more clear with a comment
```suggestion
<!-- Will be output as
<img src="/_assets/stars.hash.png" alt="A starry night sky."> -->
```

> <img src="/_assets/stars.hash.png" alt="A starry night sky.">

Reviewer 2: Why does this `src` value work? Is `/_assets` a special path that gets mapped to `src/assets`? Would `../../assets/` work?

Reviewer: `/_assets` is the wrong path, Nate probably meant `/_astro` (which is the built path for assets in SSG)

Author: Whoops I did indeed.

Author: Updated to `/_astro`.

To @Jutanium's original question, this `src` value works because the image integration now automatically processes images in Markdown.

> <img src="/_assets/stars.hash.png" alt="A starry night sky.">

Author: ```suggestion
<img src="/_astro/stars.hash.png" alt="A starry night sky.">
```

<!-- Remote image on another server -->
![Astro](https://astro.build/assets/logo.png)
<img src="https://astro.build/assets/logo.png" width="25" alt="Astro">
```

### Content Collections

A common use case for blog posts is to reference assets in their metadata (think, cover image for an article, picture for an author etc).

With the `src/assets` folder, we're also introducing a new `asset` helper to the `astro:content` module. The `asset` helper will validate that the user references a valid asset from the `src/assets` folder:

```ts
import { asset, defineCollection, z } from "astro:content";

const blogCollection = defineCollection({
  schema: z.object({
    title: z.string(),

>     image: asset({ width: 1120, height: 1120 }),

Reviewer 2: From what I understand, this isn't _validating_ that the asset has width 1120 and height 1120, but _transforming_ it, similar to Zod's `.transform`. We can make this more clear.

Reviewer: This is validating it. If your image doesn't have the requested width / height / format, you'll get an error

Reviewer: What it means is that the final shape you get from using getCollectionEntry later for the image is the same as if you've had imported it.

`asset` does transform in that regard (you pass a path, you get an object with different properties, like when you import an image), but it does not use the parameters in your schema to resize or optimize the image, just to validate the source file

  }),
});
```

Assets referred this way will be transformed automatically to the same shape as if the image was imported, so they're ready to be passed to the `Image` component or the `getImage` function.

## Features

Enabling asset support allows you to access the `astro:assets` module. This module exposes the following features:

- `Image` (see [Image Component](#image-component))

### Image Component

The `<Image>` component generates an `<img>` tag with all the necessary attributes needed to display the image while avoiding Content Layout Shift **(CLS)**.

:::tip[What is Content Layout Shift?]

> CLS is a score that reflects how much content shifted on your page during loading. The ideal number for CLS is as close to zero as possible.

Reviewer 2: What does the Image component do to prevent CLS? We should add that here

Author: ```suggestion
CLS is a score that reflects how much content shifted on your page during loading. The ideal number for CLS is as close to zero as possible, which the `Image` component enforces by automatically selecting the correct `width` and `height` for local images.
```

:::

```astro
---
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import myImage from "../assets/my_image.png"; // Image is 1600x900
---

<!-- `alt` is mandatory on the Image component -->
<Image src={myImage} alt="..." />
```

```astro
<!-- Output -->
<!-- Image is optimized, proper attributes are enforced -->
<img
  src="/_astro/my_image.hash.webp"
  width="1600"
  height="900"
  decoding="async"
  loading="lazy"
  alt="..."
/>
```

### Properties

#### width and height

These properties are used to size the image while ensuring there will be no CLS. These properties are required for remote images. When using local images, the `width` and `height` can be automatically inferred from the source file.

#### format

`format` is used to set the [image file type](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#common_image_file_types). This property is optional, but the default is `webp`.

#### quality

> `quality` affects the image transformation quality. It can either be a preset from `low`, `medium`, `high`, `max` or a number from `0` to `100`. This property is optional.

Reviewer 2: We can add something here like "Each image file type handles the `quality` value differently.`

Author: ```suggestion
`quality` affects the image transformation quality. It can either be a preset from `low`, `medium`, `high`, `max` (automatically normalized between formats) or a number from `0` to `100` (interpreted differently between formats.) This property is optional.
```

#### alt

Not all users can see images in the same way, so accessibility is an especially important concern when using images. Use the `alt` attribute to provide [descriptive alt text](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/) for images.

This attribute is required for the `<Image />` component. This component will throw an error if no alt text is provided.

If the image is merely decorative (i.e. doesn't contribute to the understanding of the page), set `alt=""` so that screen readers know to ignore the image.

#### Additional properties

> In addition to the properties listed previously, the Image component accept all the properties accepted by the HTML `img` tag. You can use this for example, to provide a `class` to the final `img` element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the properties listed previously, the Image component accepts all the properties accepted by the HTML `img` tag. You can use this, for example, to provide a `class` to the final `img` element.
```

i18nReady: false
---

**Built-in Asset Support** is enabled in Astro behind an experimental flag. This built-in feature will eventually replace the optional `@astrojs/image` integration.

The new assets experience currently features:

- A new built-in `<Image />` component
- Relative images with automatic optimization in Markdown and MDX files
- Integration with content collections
- Improved error messages and types

:::caution
Assets are an _experimental_ Astro feature. This API is subject to change before it is marked as stable.
:::

## Enabling Assets in your Project

Enabling assets may cause some breaking changes in your project. It may also require some manual changes to take advantage of new features.

Please check every section below to avoid errors and to get the most out of using the experimental assets option!

### Update Config

To enable built-in asset support, add the following lines to your `astro.config.mjs` configuration file:

```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={4-6}
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';

export default defineConfig({
 experimental: {
  assets: true
 }
});
```

### Move your images to `src/assets/`

> Create a new folder `src/assets/` which Astro will recogize as your new assets folder.

Reviewer 3: Typo: `recogize` -> `recognize`
The repeating "new/folder" here feels a bit odd to me, what about rewording a bit?
```suggestion
Create an `src/assets/` folder, which Astro will recognize as your new assets folder.
```

> We **strongly recommend** storing all local images in the `src/assets/` directory. This location is optional for now, but may become the required location for all asset types in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We **strongly recommend** storing all images to be optimized in the `src/assets/` directory. This location is optional for now, but may become the required location for all asset types in the future.
```

> We **strongly recommend** storing all local images in the `src/assets/` directory. This location is optional for now, but may become the required location for all asset types in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We **strongly recommend** storing all local images in the `src/assets/` directory. This location is optional for now, but may become the required location for all optimized assets in the future.
```

> We **strongly recommend** storing all images to be optimized in the `src/assets/` directory. This location is optional for now, but may become the required location for all asset types in the future.

Reviewer: Maybe there should be a bit more nuance in this section, as to not scare users who want to put their images for Markdown in `content`. 

It's ultimately unlikely that we'll force assets to be in the `src/assets` folder, it should be seen more as "the approved folder" than "the folder you need to use"

Reviewer 4: I can back down on this! I was also hoping that, because it's the approved path, if we got people using it during the experimental phase, that would be easier for troubleshooting/dog fooding etc.

> We **strongly recommend** storing all images to be optimized in the `src/assets/` directory. This location is optional for now, but may become the required location for all asset types in the future.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We recommend storing all images to be optimized in the `src/assets/` directory, although this location is optional.
```

> Your images stored in `src/assets/` can be used by components (`.astro`, `.mdx` and other UI frameworks) and in Markdown files.

Reviewer 3: Serial comma
```suggestion
Your images stored in `src/assets/` can be used by components (`.astro`, `.mdx`, and other UI frameworks) and in Markdown files.
```

### Update existing `<img>` tags

Previously, importing an image would return a simple `string` with the path of the image. With the new `image` features enabled, imported image assets now match the following signature:

```ts
interface ImageAsset {
  src: string;
  width: number;
  height: number;
  format: string;
}
```

> You must update the `src` attribute of any existing `<img>` tags, and you may also update other attributes that are now available to you from the imported image.

Reviewer: Love that it tells users about the additional attributes, super cool

```astro title="src/components/MyComponent.astro" ".src" ".width" ".height" del={2,5} ins={3,6}
---
import rocket from '../images/rocket.svg';
import rocket from '../assets/images/rocket.svg'
---
<img src={rocket} width="250" height="250" alt="A rocketship in space." />
<img src={rocket.src} width={rocket.width} height={rocket.height} alt="A rocketship in space." />
```

### Update your Markdown files

> Relative images can now be referenced in Markdown and MDX files. These will automatically be optimized and hashed by Astro's build process.

Reviewer: This is only true in Markdown, not MDX at current time (because Erika didn't even know you could use `![]` in MDX). The current happy path for MDX is to import the images as in Astro files.

This allows you to move your images from the `public/` directory to the new, reserved `src/assets/` directory or move them near your Markdown files. (See the URL path of these built images in the example below.)

> Your existing images in `public/` and remote images are still valid, but are not automatically optimized by Astro's build process.

Reviewer 3: Unnecessary comma
```suggestion
Your existing images in `public/` and remote images are still valid but are not automatically optimized by Astro's build process.
```

```md title="src/pages/posts/post-1.md" "/_astro" ".hash" "../../assets/"
# My Markdown Page

<!-- Local image stored at src/assets/stars.png -->
![A starry night sky.](../../assets/stars.png)
<img src="/_astro/stars.hash.png" alt="A starry night sky.">

<!-- Image stored at public/images/stars.png -->
![A starry night sky.](/images/stars.png)
<img src="/images/stars.png" alt="A starry night sky.">

<!-- Remote image on another server -->
![Astro logo](https://astro.build/assets/logo.png)
<img src="https://astro.build/assets/logo.png" width="25" alt="Astro logo">
```

### Convert from `@astrojs/image`

**Built-in asset support is incompatible with the `@astrojs/image` integration.**

To avoid errors in your project, complete the following steps:

1. Remove the `@astrojs/image` integration.

>     You must [remove the integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/#removing-an-integration) by uninstalling and then removing from your `astro.config.mjs` file.

Reviewer 3: I guess it's missing "it" here?
```suggestion
    You must [remove the integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/#removing-an-integration) by uninstalling and then removing it from your `astro.config.mjs` file.
```

    Instead, you can use the HTML image attributes `srcset` and `sizes` or the `<picture>` tag [for art direction or to create responsive images](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Responsive_images#art_direction).

### Update content collections schemas

A new `image` helper for content collections can validate the metadata of images located in the `src/assets/` folder, such as author photos or blog cover images.

The image metadata will be transformed to match the signature of imported images, and therefore can be passed directly to the `<Image />` component or the `getImage()` function.

```ts
import { image, defineCollection, z } from "astro:content";

const blogCollection = defineCollection({
  schema: z.object({
    title: z.string(),
    cover: image().refine((img) => img.width >= 1080, {message: 'Cover image must be at least 1080 pixels wide!'}),
  }),
});
```

## `astro:assets` module

Enabling asset support allows you to access the `astro:assets` module. This module exposes the following features:

- `Image`
- `getImage()`

### `<Image />` (experimental)

The `<Image />` component generates an `<img>` tag.

> This component can transform an image's dimensions, file type and quality to produce an optimized image that avoids Content Layout Shift **(CLS)**.

Reviewer 3: Serial comma
```suggestion
This component can transform an image's dimensions, file type, and quality to produce an optimized image that avoids Content Layout Shift **(CLS)**.
```

> This component can transform an image's dimensions, file type, and quality to produce an optimized image that avoids Content Layout Shift **(CLS)**.

Reviewer: Technically, it's not the generated image that avoids CLS, it's the `img` tag generated by the `Image` component.

> This component can transform an image's dimensions, file type, and quality to produce an optimized image that avoids Content Layout Shift **(CLS)**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This component can transform an image's dimensions, file type, and quality to produce an optimized image with a resulting `<img>` tag that avoids Content Layout Shift **(CLS)**.
```

```astro
---
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import myImage from "../assets/my_image.png"; // Image is 1600x900
---

<!-- `alt` is mandatory on the Image component -->
<Image src={myImage} alt="A description of my image." />
```

```astro
<!-- Output -->
<!-- Image is optimized, proper attributes are enforced -->
<img
  src="/_astro/my_image.hash.webp"
  width="1600"
  height="900"
  decoding="async"
  loading="lazy"
  alt="A description of my image."
/>
```

#### Properties

##### width and height

These properties define the dimensions to use for the image.

When using local images in their original aspect ratio, the `width` and `height` can be automatically inferred from the source file and are optional. However, both of these properties are required for remote images.

##### format

You can optionally state the [image file type](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#common_image_file_types) to be used. The default file format used is `webp`.

##### quality

`quality` is an optional property that can either be:

> - a preset (`low`, `medium`, `high`, `max`) that is automatically normalized between formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a preset (`low`, `mid`, `high`, `max`) that is automatically normalized between formats.
```

- a number from `0` to `100` (interpreted differently between formats).

##### alt (required)

Use the `alt` attribute to provide [descriptive alt text](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/) for images.

This attribute is required for the `<Image />` component. This component will throw an error if no alt text is provided.

If the image is merely decorative (i.e. doesn't contribute to the understanding of the page), set `alt=""` so that screen readers know to ignore the image.

##### Additional properties

In addition to the properties above, the `<Image />` component accepts all properties accepted by the HTML `<img>` tag. 

For example, you can provide a `class` to the final `img` element.

```astro
---
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import myImage from "../assets/my_image.png";
---

<!-- `alt` is mandatory on the Image component -->
<Image src={myImage} alt="" class="my-class" />
```

```astro
<!-- Output -->
<img
  src="/_astro/my_image.hash.webp"
  width="1600"
  height="900"
  decoding="async"
  loading="lazy"
  class="my-class"
  alt=""
/>
```

### `getImage()` (`astro:assets`)

> This function is intended for generating images destined to be used somewhere else than directly in HTML, for example in CSS or in an [API Route](/en/core-concepts/endpoints/#server-endpoints-api-routes).

Reviewer: A major usage of `getImage` is also if you want to create your own `Image` component, might be worth a shoutout (the included Image component is basically just a call to `getImage`!)

> This function is intended for generating images destined to be used somewhere else than directly in HTML, for example in CSS or in an [API Route](/en/core-concepts/endpoints/#server-endpoints-api-routes).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This function is intended for generating images destined to be used somewhere else than directly in HTML, for example in CSS or in an [API Route](/en/core-concepts/endpoints/#server-endpoints-api-routes). It also allows you to create your own custom `<Image />` component.
```

> `getImage()` takes all the same parameters as the Image component (except `alt`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`getImage()` takes an options object with the same properties as the Image component (except `alt`).
```

{/* astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';

// Access images in `src/images/`
import logo from '../assets/images/logo.png';
---
<Image src={logo} alt="Astro" /> */}

### Update existing `<img>` tags

Previously, importing an image would return a simple `string` with the path of the image. With the new `image` features enabled, imported image assets now match the following signature:

```ts
interface ImageAsset {
  src: string;
  width: number;
  height: number;
  format: string;
}
```

You must update the `src` attribute of any existing `<img>` tags, and you may also update other attributes that are now available to you from the imported image.

```astro title="src/components/MyComponent.astro" ".src" ".width" ".height" del={2,5} ins={3,6}
---
import rocket from '../images/rocket.svg';
import rocket from '../assets/images/rocket.svg'
---
<img src={rocket} width="250" height="250" alt="A rocketship in space." />
<img src={rocket.src} width={rocket.width} height={rocket.height} alt="A rocketship in space." />
```

### Update your Markdown files

> Relative images located in `src/assets` can now be referenced in Markdown and MDX files. These will automatically be optimized and hashed by Astro's build process.

Reviewer: Relative images in Markdown do not need to be in `src/assets` (that'd kinda defeat the purpose of allowing relative images, wouldn't it? 😛)

> Relative images located in `src/assets` can now be referenced in Markdown and MDX files. These will automatically be optimized and hashed by Astro's build process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Relative images can now be referenced in Markdown and MDX files. These will automatically be optimized and hashed by Astro's build process.
```

> This allows you to move your images from the `public/` directory to the new, reserved `src/assets/` directory. (See the URL path of these built images in the example below.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to move your images from the `public/` directory to the new, reserved `src/assets/` directory (See the URL path of these built images in the example below.) or anywhere near your Markdown files.```

```md title="src/pages/posts/post-1.md" "/_astro" ".hash" "../../assets/"
# My Markdown Page

<!-- Local image stored at src/assets/stars.png -->
![A starry night sky.](../../assets/stars.png)
<img src="/_astro/stars.hash.png" alt="A starry night sky.">

<!-- Image stored at public/images/stars.png -->
![A starry night sky.](/images/stars.png)
<img src="/images/stars.png" alt="A starry night sky.">

<!-- Remote image on another server -->
![Astro logo](https://astro.build/assets/logo.png)
<img src="https://astro.build/assets/logo.png" width="25" alt="Astro logo">
```

### Convert from `@astrojs/image`

**Built-in asset support is incompatible with the `@astrojs/image` integration.**

To avoid errors in your project, complete the following steps:

1. Remove the `@astrojs/image` integration.

    You must [remove the integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/#removing-an-integration) by uninstalling and then removing from your `astro.config.mjs` file.

2. Migrate any existing `<Image />` components.

    Change all `import` statements from `@astrojs/image/components` to `astro:assets` to use the new built-in `<Image />` component.

>     The supported props are identical with the exception of `aspectRatio`, which is now automatically inferred from the `width` and `height` attributes.

Reviewer: This is not true:
- `@astrojs/images` supported more properties, notably because its behaviour was different regarding cropping and it needed to support things such as `fitPosition`
- `aspectRatio` was always inferred from `width` and `height` if they existed. Its purpose was to allow you to omit either `width` or `height` as it would use provided-width/height + aspect ratio to calculate the missing dimension.

>     The supported props are identical with the exception of `aspectRatio`, which is now automatically inferred from the `width` and `height` attributes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Remove any component attributes from your `<Image /> components that are not [currently supported image asset properties](#properties). For example `aspectRatio` is no longer supported, as it is now automatically inferred from the `width` and `height` attributes.
```

      ```astro title="src/components/MyComponent.astro" del= {2,11} ins={3}
      ---
      import { Image } from '@astrojs/image/components';
      import { Image } from 'astro:assets'
      import localImage from "../assets/logo.png";
      const localAlt = "The Astro Logo";
      ---

      <Image
        src={localImage}
        width={300}
        aspectRatio="16:9"
        alt={localAlt}
      />
      ```

3. Remove any existing `<Picture />` components

    Currently, the built-in assets feature does not include a `<Picture />` component.

>     Instead, use the new `<Image />` component or the HTML `<picture>` tag.

Reviewer 4: OK, will adjust to make this sound a lot harder.  :joy:

    ```astro del={2,8} ins={3,9}
    ---
    import { Picture } from '@astrojs/image/components';
    import { Image } from 'astro:assets'
    import localImage from '../assets/logo.png';
    const localAlt = "The Astro Logo";
    ---

    <Picture src={localImage} widths={[200, 400, 800]} sizes="(max-width: 800px) 100vw, 800px" formats={['avif', 'jpeg', 'png', 'webp']} alt="The Astro logo" />
    <Image src={localImage} alt="The Astro logo" />
    ```

### Update content collections schemas

A new `image` helper for content collections can validate the metadata of images located in the `src/assets/` folder, such as author photos or blog cover images.

> ```ts
> import { image, defineCollection, z } from "astro:content";
> 
> const blogCollection = defineCollection({
>   schema: z.object({
>     title: z.string(),
>     cover: image().refine((img) => img.width >= 1080, {message: 'Cover image must be at least 1080 pixels wide!'}),
>   }),
> });
> ```
> 
> The image metadata will be transformed to match the signature of imported images, and therefore can be passed directly to the `<Image />` component or the `getImage()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image metadata will be transformed to match the signature of imported images, and therefore can be passed directly to the `<Image />` component or the `getImage()` function.

```ts
import { image, defineCollection, z } from "astro:content";

const blogCollection = defineCollection({
  schema: z.object({
    title: z.string(),
    cover: image().refine((img) => img.width >= 1080, {message: 'Cover image must be at least 1080 pixels wide!'}),
  }),
});
```
```

```astro
---
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import myImage from "../assets/my_image.png";
---

<!-- `alt` is mandatory on the Image component -->
<Image src={myImage} alt="..." class="my-class" />
```

```astro
<!-- Output -->
<img
  src="/_astro/my_image.hash.webp"
  width="1600"
  height="900"
  decoding="async"
  loading="lazy"
  class="my-class"
/>
```

### `getImage()`

This function is intended for generating images destined to be used somewhere else than directly in HTML, for example in CSS or in an [API Route](/en/core-concepts/endpoints/#server-endpoints-api-routes).

`getImage()` takes all the same parameters as the Image component (except `alt`).

```astro
---
import { getImage } from "astro:assets";
import myBackground from "../background.png"

const optimizedBackground = await getImage({src: myBackground, format: 'avif'})
---

<div style={`background-image: url(${optimizedBackground.src});`}></div>
```

It returns an object with the following properties:

```js
{
  options: {...} // Original parameters passed,

>   src: "https//..." // Path to the generate image,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  src: "https//..." // Path to the generated image,
```

<Image src={logo} alt="Astro" />
```

## New Markdown support

> Images stored in `src/assets/` can be referenced in Markdown and MDX files. These will automatically be optimized and hashed by Astro's build process.

Reviewer: Images do not need to be in the `assets` folder to be optimized, any images can be referred to

Remote images are also valid, but are not automatically optimized by Astro's build process.

```md
<!-- src/pages/post-1.md -->
# My Markdown Page

<!-- Local image stored at public/assets/stars.png -->

> ![A starry night sky.](../../assets/stars.png)

Reviewer: You can't refer to images in `public` this way, this follow the normal rules so you'd have to do `/assets/stars.png` and it would count as a remote image (not sure if it was even intended that the image is in public?)

Author: Whoops, yeah that was an accident

    image: asset({ width: 1120, height: 1120 }),
  }),
});
```

> Assets referred this way will be transformed automatically to the same shape as if the image was imported, so they're ready to be used optimally.

Reviewer: > so they're ready to be used optimally.

I'd avoid the term optimally, as it might trick users into thinking the image is optimized. You still have to pass the image through `getImage` or the Image component to optimize it
